Url-Shortener Web Application
=============================

Url-Shortener is a web application that allows you to shorten original URLs, generate automatically short IDs or pick one yourself. You can also specify TTL (Time-To-Live) in seconds, which will prevent accessing the original page using the short URL after the given time.

Built with Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, and JPA, this application uses SLF4J for logging and stores data in an H2 database.

How to use:
------------

1. Run UrlShortenerApplication
2. Open the web application using `localhost:8080` in your browser's search bar.
3. Fill in the form:
   - Original URL is required,
   - Type a short ID (e.g., "a5FUjC") or leave blank for an auto-generated short ID,
   - If you want your link to expire, specify the time (in seconds) or leave blank for it to remain forever (as long as the program is running).
4. Click "Shorten URL" to generate a short ID and copy it.
5. To open the original page using the short ID, use your web browser's search bar and type `http://localhost:8080/api/<short_id>` (replace `<short_id>` with the actual short ID generated by the application).

Note: The application refreshes itself every minute to delete expired short URLs.

6. To delete a short ID from the database, use the "Delete a Short URL" form.
7. Type your unique short ID (e.g., "a5FUjC").
8. Click the "Delete Short URL" button.
9. If the short URL exists, it will be deleted from the database.

To view the database:
--------------------

Open the H2 console using `http://localhost:8080/h2-console` in your browser's search bar.

* Driver Class: `org.h2.Driver`
* JDBC URL: `jdbc:h2:mem:url-shortener`
* User Name: `sa`
* Password: (leave blank)

Use the SQL command `SELECT * FROM Url;` to view the database contents.
